README.md, before:

## ISO Builder

This ISO builder is fork of the good work from the elementary crew.  Many thanks to the devs there https://github.com/elementary/os

## Building Locally

As ubuntu cinnamon-remix is built with the Debian version of `live-build`, not the Ubuntu patched version, it's easiest to build an iso in a Debian VM or container. This prevents messing up your host system too.

The following example uses Docker and assumes you have Docker correctly installed and set up:

 1) sudo apt install docker.io

 2) sudo docker pull debian

 3) Customise the docker image to have the ability to build eoan/focal

    sudo docker run --privileged -it debian:latest

    note the containerID in the root prompt i.e. /# means you are now in the container
    
    e.g. root@ea5126f14ac9:/#

    Now install debootstrap package and create an eoan (or focal script)

    apt update && apt install debootstrap -y

    cd /usr/share/debootstrap/scripts

    cp disco eoan
    
    cd

    Install git and nano

    apt install git nano -y

    Clone the iso-builder

    mkdir /home/cinnamonremix
    
    cd /home/cinnamonremix
    
    git clone https://github.com/ubuntubudgie/iso-builder -b cinnamonv2
    
    cd iso-builder
    
    at this point configure etc/terraform.conf for the build you wish to make e.g. 20.04 and focal - ensure you decide between unstable or all PPAs

    ./build.sh

    This will eventually complete - ignore any errors EXCEPT for 404 repository errors.  If you get those then investigate why and once fixed exit and start the instructions again.  This step will take 20-60 minutes depending on your internet speed and host OS CPU power

    exit the container and commit the results

    exit
    
    You will now be back on your host OS
    
    sudo docker commit containerID 
    
    e.g.   sudo docker commit ea5126f14ac9

    Stop the docker container (important step)

    sudo docker stop ea5126f14ac9



 3) Run the build by starting a container:

    sudo docker start -i ea5126f14ac9
    
    You will now be back in the container i.e. with a /# prompt

    cd /home/cinnamonremix/iso-builder

    ./terraform.sh
    
    This will take approx 20-60 minutes but will depend on your host OS CPU power and internet speed

 4) When done, your image will be in the builds folder.

    On your host, copy the build folder from your docker container

    sudo docker cp containerID:/home/cinnamonremix/iso-builder/builds/amd64 .

    Finish by shutting down the container

    sudo docker stop containerID

## Docker hints

To see the list of docker containers

    sudo docker ps -a

To remove a docker container using the Container ID listed with the above command

    sudo docker rm containerid
    
To remove a docker image

    sudo docker images
    
    sudo docker rmi imageID

To stop a docker container when running

    sudo docker stop containerid



## Further Information

More information about the concepts behind `live-build` and the technical decisions made to arrive at this set of tools to build an .iso can be found [on the wiki](https://github.com/elementary/os/wiki/Building-iso-Images).

Commit message:

Rejig to build impish Thanks Arun for the zstd hint, this commit ensures a successful build against impish

README.md, after:

## ISO Builder

This ISO builder is fork of the good work from the elementary crew.  Many thanks to the devs there https://github.com/elementary/os

## Building Locally

As ubuntu cinnamon-remix is built with the Debian version of `live-build`, not the Ubuntu patched version, it's easiest to build an iso in a Debian VM or container. This prevents messing up your host system too.

The following example uses Docker and assumes you have Docker correctly installed and set up:

 1) sudo apt install docker.io

 2) sudo docker pull debian

 3) Customise the docker image to have the ability to build eoan/focal

    sudo docker run --privileged -it debian:latest

    note the containerID in the root prompt i.e. /# means you are now in the container
    
    e.g. root@ea5126f14ac9:/#

    Install git and nano

    apt update && apt install git nano -y

    Clone the iso-builder

    mkdir /home/cinnamonremix
    
    cd /home/cinnamonremix
    
    git clone https://github.com/ubuntubudgie/iso-builder
    
    cd iso-builder
    
    at this point configure etc/terraform.conf for the build you wish to make e.g. 21.10 and impish - ensure you decide between unstable or all PPAs

    also edit build.sh and change the symbolic link codename if necessary to match terraform.conf
    
    now run

    ./build.sh

    This will eventually complete - ignore any errors EXCEPT for 404 repository errors.  If you get those then investigate why and once fixed exit and start the instructions again.  This step will take 20-60 minutes depending on your internet speed and host OS CPU power

    exit the container and commit the results

    exit
    
    You will now be back on your host OS
    
    sudo docker commit containerID 
    
    e.g.   sudo docker commit ea5126f14ac9

    Stop the docker container (important step)

    sudo docker stop ea5126f14ac9



 3) Run the build by starting a container:

    sudo docker start -i ea5126f14ac9
    
    You will now be back in the container i.e. with a /# prompt

    cd /home/cinnamonremix/iso-builder

    ./terraform.sh
    
    This will take approx 20-60 minutes but will depend on your host OS CPU power and internet speed

 4) When done, your image will be in the builds folder.

    On your host, copy the build folder from your docker container

    sudo docker cp containerID:/home/cinnamonremix/iso-builder/builds/amd64 .

    Finish by shutting down the container

    sudo docker stop containerID

## Docker hints

To see the list of docker containers

    sudo docker ps -a

To remove a docker container using the Container ID listed with the above command

    sudo docker rm containerid
    
To remove a docker image

    sudo docker images
    
    sudo docker rmi imageID

To stop a docker container when running

    sudo docker stop containerid



## Further Information

More information about the concepts behind `live-build` and the technical decisions made to arrive at this set of tools to build an .iso can be found [on the wiki](https://github.com/elementary/os/wiki/Building-iso-Images).
